performance and scalability go hand in hand,
and many times it's hard to tell where one ends and another begins in this section.
We're going to be talking about both topics before we jump into an example of tweaking for
resource utilization.
Let's talk about some things that we could do.
One modification that we could make to the server for the A.
P.
I is adding on some kind of rate limiting right now.
Any user who is able to reach this AP,
I can hit it with as many requests per second as they feel like.
Sometimes this is desirable.
But in other times you want to limit the amount of requests that any given user can make
per second,
so that all of the resource is of the server are available for all of the other users.
If you let any user get out of hand with the amount of resource is they're using,
that degrades the performance for everyone else.
So when requests come in to our A p I,
and we start processing them here,
we could implement some kind of rate limiter that would keep track of how many requests
this specific user identified by I p address or token,
or whatever has made in the last rolling five seconds or rolling minute etcetera.
And if they exceed a rate limit,
we would send them back.
A.
You've been raped,
limited message automatically.
And then once they have reached a rolling window where they have not exceeded the rate
limits,
we would allow them to make normal requests again,
since we would be implementing that here before getting our data store involved.
That would save a lot of our back and resource is,
or we could have a data store dedicated to storing the data we need to keep track of to
know if any given user has exceeded their rate limit.
Another thing that we could do when it comes to performance optimization should be fairly
obvious.
Right now.
We are using the file system as a data store,
and this simply doesn't scale.
Or at least it doesn't scale in a particularly elegant way.
Right now,
if any of our threads or any of our processes are trying to open files while some other
processes trying to open that same file the right to that file,
the results aren't going to be particularly nice.
So this is obviously where a full fledged data store comes in.
A Rio database would allow you to make multiple simultaneous connections.
Send off your request to read or write with various levels of consistency,
depending on your read needs.
And internally,
that data store would queue your request so that their performed in atomic fashion.
Our file system is really doing any of that.
And so this isn't the most elegant solution for scale.
Also,
since we are literally storing the data on a particular server when we're implementing a
file system in this way,
it doesn't allow you to scale your servers horizontally.
Connecting to your file system from no Js is fine,
but you'd want the data store that it connects to to live on some other machine that can
scale with its own resource is,
and you'd want to be able to have your no Js server scale horizontally without needing to
keep track of which server has which data about which user.
If you chose to implement 1/3 party database or a database of your own creation,
you could have a data library much like this you'd still want lived,
create read,
update,
delete and list.
It's just that rather than having these functions read and write to the file system,
as they're doing here,
you'd want them to directly connect to some other data store and performed the reads writes
and updates and lists that way.
Okay,
so now let's move into a real life example of how we could tweak for performance.
Remember that tweaking per performance is really any kind of adjustments that you might
make in order to save.
System Resource is under some situations,
so the adjustment that we can make is actually to one of our handlers.
If you remember back when we created the Jason Handler for post checks,
we have this taking a bunch of inputs,
looking up the user and the token that the user provided reading in the user data,
checking to make sure the user didn't have too many checks already and then creating the
check and reading it to the file system.
What's going to happen after this,
though,
is that this check object is going to start getting checked regularly,
which means if the user put in a URL that doesn't exist or you are l.
That doesn't even have DNS entries are workers.
Once this check is created are going to start checking that same your l over and over and
over again,
even though there's really no reason to do that because it's never going to resolve.
So one thing that we could do to optimize performance here is rather than just blindly
creating the check object with the girl that the user specifies we can use no Js to look up
the DNs entries for this u r l to make sure that that DNS exists before re allow the user
to create a check with it.
So let's go ahead and do that.
In order to do this,
we're going to actually use to know J s modules one that should be familiar and one that is
brand new.
So at the top,
I'm gonna add to do modules to our dependencies.
One is your l,
which we've used before for parsing your L data,
and I'm gonna call that underscore Euro and the other is DNS,
which is require Dennis and DNS is the mantra that we're going to use to look up the DNS
entries of the host name that is specified in the euro that the user provides.
So let's go back down to checks post.
Now,
at this point,
rather than creating the check I d.
As soon as we check that the user doesn't already have five checks,
we first want to parse the euro to figure out the host name.
We first want to verify that the euro given as DNS entries and therefore can resolve.
The first thing that we need to do is parts the your L as we've done before.
So we're going to use underscore your l dot parse.
We're going to add on the protocol that the user specified and then append colon slash
slash then add on the u R l that they specified and say true going to call this parsed euro
.
Now we need to grab the host name out of this part you around.
So we're going to save our host name because type Of course you are.
L host name equals string and the length is rate of zero.
It would have lasted two false.
So now we want to use the DNS module to try to resolve this host,
which is basically going to try to check for the type of DNs records that we would need
before we could ever make in http requests to this euro,
we're gonna call DNs,
resolve pass in the host name and then expect back an air and DNS records.
At this point,
if there is no air and there are records,
then we can continue on with the rest of logic here.
Otherwise,
we're going to send an air back to the user.
That's a 400 object saying error.
The host name of the euro entered did not resolve to any DNS entries.
But if everything's fine,
I'm gonna take everything that used to happen below here,
and I'm going to pace it inside.
Now.
One thing to note whether or not the DNS resolved successfully will depend on your I S P.
In my experience,
some I S.
P s take it upon themselves to resolve all non resolvable addresses to one of their own
pages.
And this is generally so when people enter a misspelled your l in the browser that I speak
and serve them with some kind of ad.
So it's possible that when you try to resolve unresolvable DNs here,
you still get some kind of results,
and there isn't much that you can do about it.
Except for try to host your site on a machine inside of it.
I s P that doesn't do that kind of thing.
So let's start this server back up and try to see what happens.
Okay?
First,
I'm going to post to the token service with the credentials of the user that we've been
using recently.
Now,
I haven't token that I can use in subsequent requests,
So I'm gonna do a post to the check service.
But I am going to update the token here.
Going to send a post with google dot com to a P I slash checks.
I got a 200 back.
Now.
I'm going to try to send a your l.
That shouldn't exist.
I'm gonna create this long euro that no one should have ever registered.
Send that off and we get a 400 back.
The host name of the girl entered did not resolve to any DNS entries again,
This might be the results that you experience on your local hosts.
It really depends on your eyes.
Be if you're on a good eyes.
P then this is the result that you'll get back.
Okay,
So how does this help us with performance?
How does looking up the DNS helps with performance?
Well,
imagine that out of all of our users,
1% of the checks that they create are accidentally to some your l that doesn't exist or
doesn't even have DNs entries.
Well,
then our workers,
once a minute are using up system Resource is to perform checks over and over and over
again to DNS that will never resolve.
That's going to use up resources for no reason.
And so implementing this kind of thing ahead of time upstream of that problem should help
us alleviate the majority of those situations.
It's also a benefit to the user where we're catching errors that they might not have
noticed that they put in in the first place.
Okay,
so we've talked about a bunch in this lecture.
We talked about re factoring our data library to use external data stores.
We talked about implementing a rate limiter,
and now we just did an example of modifying one of our A p I routes to say system resource
is downstream of that route.
Now that we have that in place.
We can move on to the next lecture where we're going to talk about the performance hoax
module and how you can time the execution of some of your code.